---
layout: post
title: "result< T, E >: Seamless error_code's with C++ Coroutines"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - cpp
  - coroutine
---
### The Idea

The other day I was reviewing some code when I saw the use of a macro to simplify handling an `error_code` like type. I'm sure most of us have seen code like this
```c++
// Either return the error or assign 
// the value type of rexpr to lhs.
#define ASSIGN_OR_RETURN(lhs, rexpr) ...

result<int, error_code> foo() { ... }

result<bool, error_code> bar() {
  ASSIGN_OR_RETURN(int i, foo());
  return i == 3;
}
```
In this example `result<T,E>` is a discriminated union / sum type, it will either hold the expected type `T`, or in case of an error, it will hold an `E`. The macro `ASSIGN_OR_RETURN` returns the error type if the error type is active and otherwise assigns the value type to `i`.

I think it's pretty obvious why the use of the macro is less than desirable.
 <!--more-->
Apparently the author of the code had picked this pattern up at google where `result<T, error_code> = StatusOr<T>`.  While chatting they mentioned how they wish C++ had the [Rust](https://doc.rust-lang.org/edition-guide/rust-2018/error-handling-and-panics/the-question-mark-operator-for-easier-error-handling.html) `operator ?` which effectively does the same thing as the macro. 

But this got me thinking... Shortly before I was playing around with the new C++ coroutine TS (very excited ;). From my understanding, the coroutine keyword `co_await` effectively allows us to shim in arbitrary code at the site of the  `co_await` operator. In particular, this mechanism can allow us to return early from the function. I was envisioning something like the following:
```c++
result<int, error_code> foo() { ... }

result<bool, error_code> bar() {
  int i = co_await foo();
  co_return i == 3;
}
```
While I am not the first to have this basic observation, e.g. [boost::outcome](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_72_0/libs/outcome/doc/html/index.html), [folly::expected](https://github.com/facebook/folly/blob/72c71129647d3f12402364e818336125d911fa8d/folly/Expected.h), [this reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/a68wjo/investigating_what_is_really_needed_to_have/), I beleive this capability deserves more attention and is a good example to learn from. Moreover, while exploring this idea I quickly discovered that this code be further simplified to just
```c++
result<int, error_code> foo() { ... }

result<bool, error_code> bar() {
  int i = foo();
  co_return i == 3;
}
```
All three of these example have the same exact behavior. If `foo()` returns an `error_code` then `bar()` will propegate this same `error_code` threw the return channel.  

To my suprise this solution can also provide guaranteed exception safety. Consider the following,
```c++
result<bool, error_code> bar() noexcept {
  int i = foo();
  if(i == 2)
    throw std::exception();
  co_return i == 3;
}
```
At first glance, the `noexcept` seems incorrect. However, it is possible to configure the `result<T,E>` type so that it can capture all exceptions and record them as the error type, in this case `error_core`. In the implementation, I also show how to use `std::exception_ptr` as the error type to allow us to keep the runtime information contained in the current exception.

### The result<T,E> type

The code I will be discussing can be found [here](https://github.com/ladnir/result) but be warned it is just a prototype. For production-level code that does some of that I have described, see [boost::outcome](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_72_0/libs/outcome/doc/html/index.html), [folly::expected](https://github.com/facebook/folly/blob/72c71129647d3f12402364e818336125d911fa8d/folly/Expected.h). My `result<T,E>` has the following form 
```c++

template<typename T, typename E, typename ExceptionHandler>
class result
{
public:
  using value_type = T;
  using error_type = E;
  using exception_handler = ExceptionHandler;

  // constructors...
  result(const value_type& t);
  result(const error_type& e);
  result(const result& r);
  ...

  // accessing members 
  bool has_value() const;
  bool has_error() const;
  value_type& value();
  error_type& error();
  ...
  
  template <class Promise>
  struct awaiter {
    ...
  };

  struct promise_type {
    ...
  };
}
```

For now, we can ignore the `exception_handler`. The critical type for our concerns is the `promise_type` type. When the compiler sees one of the `co_*` keywords in a function body the compiler will look up the `promise_type` of the current return type, in our case `result<T,E>::promise_type`. The compiler will then roughly transform the function
```c++
result<bool, error_code> bar() {
  int i = co_await bar();
  co_return i == 3;
}
```
into
```c++
result<bool, error_code> bar() {
  using return_type = result<bool, error_code>;
  using promise_type = return_type::promise_type;
  promise_type prom;
  return_type ret = prom.get_return_object();
  
  result<int, error_code> b = bar();
  return_type::awaiter<...> a = promise_type::await_transform(b);
  if(a.await_ready() == false)
  {
    a.await_suspend(prom);
    return ret;
  }
  int i = a.await_resume();

  ret = i == 3;
  return ret;
}
```
As the implementer of `result<T,E>`, we have control over the body of these inserted functions. It is then a relatively simple matter to acheive the desired logic. First, we will have `promise_type::get_return_object() -> promise_type&` return a reference to itself and give `result<T,E>` the following constructor
```c++
template<...> class result {
  ...
  class promise_type {
    result* result_ptr = nullptr;
    ...
  };    

  result(proise_type& promise) {
    promise.result_ptr = this;
  }
};
```
The `promise_type` will then hold the pointer to the `result` as a member. The `awaiter` type `a` will then similarly hold a pointer `b_ptr` to `b` which is provided via the `await_transform(b)` function. During the call to `a.await_ready()`, the implementation will check if `b` contains an `error_type` and if so return `false`. The subsequant call to `a.await_suspend(prom)` can then set `*prom.result_ptr = a.b_ptr->error()`. Alternative, if `b` does not contain an error then `a.await_resume()` can similarly return the underlying `value_type` from `b`.

While this gives us a solid solution, we still must use the `co_await` keyword to generate this transformation. If you recall earlier, we desired to write
```c++
result<int, error_code> foo() { ... }

result<bool, error_code> bar() {
  int i = foo();
  co_return i == 3;
}
```
For this we will add an implicit converstion operator `result<T,E>::operator T()` which throws an `E` in the event that the error type is active. This convertion operator will then implicicitly be called for `int i = bar();`. In the event that an `E` is thrown we can imidiately catch it using the following
```c++
template<...> class result {
  ...
  class promise_type {
    void unhandled_exception() {
      try{ throw; }
      catch(error_type& e) {
        *result_ptr = e;
      }
    }
    ...
  };  

  result(proise_type& promise) {
    promise.result_ptr = this;
  }
};
```
The way this all works is as follows. When an exception is thrown in a coroutine it is automatically caught and within the `catch` block the function`promise_type::unhandled_exception()` is called. The current exception can then be rethrow using `throw;` which in turn allows us to catch the underlying `error_type` and store it in the return `result<T,E>`.


The final missing piece is how to handle arbitrary exceptions. For this, the library provides a way for the user to customize how an exception is converted into an error type. This is achieved by providing the third template parameter `exception_handler` with two member functions that contain the desired logic. When working with error codes one option is to simply throw out all the runtime information associated with the exception and store a generic error code indicating that an exception was caught and suppressed. This option can be found [here](https://github.com/ladnir/result/blob/master/result/result.h#L341).

Alternatively, it is possible to instantiate a `result` type with `result<T, std::exception_ptr>` where no runtime exception information is thrown away. It is then possible to specify an `exception_handler` which catches all exceptions and stores them as an `std::exception_ptr`, if the user does an unchecked access to the `value_type`, the captured `std::exception_ptr` can be rethrown using `std::rethrow_exception(...)`. This option can be found [here](https://github.com/ladnir/result/blob/master/result/result.h#L360).

As a final remark, I'd like to say that this is just an example of what could be done. It is far from clear that everything I stated here is actually the best design choice. Certainly, the ideas about how to remove the use of the `co_await` keyword by throwing an exception are likely not the most efficient, although it is hard to say what the compiler will optimize away.

Cheers,
Peter