---
layout: post
title: "ReLI: Real-Time Lightweight Byzantine Consensus in Low-Power IoT-Systems"
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - Distributed Computing
  - Trust
  - Collaborative Computing
  - Security and Privacy
---
<br>

<a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9965123" target="_blank">ReLI: Real-Time Lightweight Byzantine Consensus in Low-Power IoT-Systems</a>
<div class="authors"><b>Himanshu Goyal</b>, Manish Kausik H, and Sudipta Saha
</div> 
<!-- To appear in 
<i>Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, Volume 16, 2022</i> -->
<div class="authors"><i>Accepted in the 18th IEEE International Conference on Networks and Service Management (CNSM), 2022, Thessaloniki, Greece. </i></div>

<p style="text-align: justify; font-size:85%;"><b>Abstract:</b> IoT/WSN assisted smart-systems are making our living easier and more comfortable in various aspects. However, there is always a chance of malfunctioning in such massive decentralized systems in crucial moments because of one or more components of the system getting compromised. For instance, monitoring systems installed to watch the status of a bridge may unknowingly suppress the recent deterioration in the status because of some compromised sensing devices. Byzantine fault tolerance support is highly essential in combating the presence of such smart devices with malicious intentions. However, existing solutions for consensus or data aggregation in IoT/WSN systems either assume non-Byzantine node failures or use only simulation/theoretical models to address the existence of Byzantine nodes. Theoretically, a decentralized system can effectively tolerate Byzantine characteristics of up to a certain fraction of the nodes. However, to achieve even that, the nodes need to interact extensively and share data with each other which makes it challenging for such solutions to get practically realized and produce outcomes in real-time, especially in resource-constrained IoT systems. In this work, we adopt Synchronous-Transmission based mechanisms and propose a framework ReLI to efficiently achieve Byzantine consensus in low-power IoT systems. We show that ReLI can operate up to 80% faster and consume up to 78% lesser radio-on time compared to the traditional implementation of the strategy in a publicly available IoT/WSN testbed containing 45 nodes.</p>
  <!-- <br>
  <b>Reviewer comment:</b> I found the combination of declarative language for document extraction, program inference to bootstrap program generation, and UI to help users debug and correct the inferred program very interesting. Combined with the detailed error analysis of the proposed approach and LayoutLM it has the potential to lead to many interesting discussions during the conference on rule-based vs deep learning approaches, their respective benefits in industrial settings, and their potential linking points. -->
  <!-- </details> -->
<!-- <br>
<br> -->

<details>
   <summary><b><i>Paper Reviews</i></b></summary>
    <div style="font-size:80%;">
    <b>Remark:</b> The final draft incorporates several suggestions provided in the reviews.
    <li> <b>Review 1:</b>
      <ul>
        <li> <i> What are major strengths? </i> </li>
        <ul>
          <li> The paper exhibits sufficient novelty. </li>
          <li> The work is properly presented and the text is well-written. </li>
          <li> Sufficient evaluation and technical depth are exhibited. </li>
        </ul>
        <li> <i> What are shortcomings? </i> </li>
        <ul>
          <li> There are no noteworthy drawbacks for this paper. </li>
        </ul>
      </ul>
    </li>
    
  <li> <b>Review 2:</b>
    <ul>
      <li> <i> What are major strengths? </i> </li>
      <ul>
        <li> This paper proposes a framework ReLI to efficiently achieve Byzantine Consensus in Low-Power IoT-Systems. </li>
        <li> The proposed scheme leverages Synchrous Transmission (ST) based communication mechanism among IoT devices. </li>
        <li> The performance of the proposed scheme was evaluated by implementations in Cooja as well as IoT/WSN testbeds DCube and FlockLab composed of 45 and 24 TelosB motes, where the algorithms were implemented in Contiki OS for TelosB motes. </li>
        <li>   The paper shows that ReLI can operate up to 80% faster and consume up to 78% less radio-on time compared to the traditional implementation of the strategy in a publicly available IoT/WSN testbed containing 45 nodes. </li>
      </ul>
      <li> <i> What are shortcomings? </i> </li>
      <ul>
        <li> The performance analysis was done for relatively small number of IoT nodes, just up to 45 nodes.
             Analysis on scalability is required with increased IoT nodes. </li>
      </ul>
    </ul>
  </li>

  <li> <b>Review 3:</b>
    <ul>
      <li> <i> What are major strengths? </i> </li>
      <ul>
        <li> This paper proposes a framework named ReLI to achieve Byzantine consensus in low-power IoT systems.
             Its performance is well demonstrated by implementation.   </li>
      </ul>
      <li> <i> What are shortcomings? </i> </li>
      <ul>
        <li> Readability is low because of paper organization.
             For example, although Fig. 1 appears in p.5 (Section IV), it is referred in p.3 (Section III).    </li>
      </ul>
    </ul>
  </li>

  <div style="font-size:80%;">
   
</details>