---
layout: post
title: "Thesis: Towards Building Trustworthy Wireless Sensor Network"
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
categories:
  - Publications
tags:
  - Distributed Computing
  - Trust
  - Collaborative Computing
  - Security and Privacy
---


                     
<a href="/docs/Final_Thesis.pdf" target="_blank">A Step Towards
    Building Trustworthy
    Wireless Sensor Network</a> (<a href="/docs/Thesis_Synopsis.pdf" target="_blank">Synopsis</a>)
<br>
<div class="authors">Himanshu Goyal</div>
<em>(under guidance of <a href="https://www.iitbbs.ac.in/profile.php/sudipta/">
          Prof. Sudipta Saha</a>)</em><br>IIT Bhubaneswar <em>(2020-2022)</em>
<br>
<br>

<div style="text-align: justify; word-wrap: break-word;">
In this work, we conceptualize an Internet of Things (IoT) system as a vast network of
low-power devices distributed over a large geographical area. Each device is capable of performing tasks,
communicating with other devices, and operates under limited energy resources. We also take into account
the possibility of some devices being manipulated by adversaries with intentions to gain control over the network or to cause the network to deviate from its intended function. The primary
limitation of an IoT system is the resource constraints of the devices. However, we interpret the extensive number of devices in IoT as an advantage. We consider it as a highly distributed system and propose to offset the resource limitation in the devices with collaborative computing, where device-to-device communication is crucial. To effectively leverage the potential of such a large-scale network, we propose a shift from the traditional asynchronous transmission-based communication strategies to time-slotted parallel communication strategies. The primary focus of this research is to achieve Byzantine fault tolerance in IoT networks and to implement privacy-preserving data-aggregation among the participating nodes using the developed synchronous communication strategies.
</div>